Draft a policy on email lists and slack channels (#144)
astropy/astropy-project: policies/communication_channels.md

Reviewer: There is also the Voting members section of the Discourse which is private, the Discourse in general which is public, and the matrix channels which are missing from this.

Author: Ah, this draft PR test preceeded Discourse. Thanks!

# Communication channels in the Astropy Project

## Preface

Communication in the Astropy Project is governed by the [Community
Code of Conduct](https://www.astropy.org/code_of_conduct.html), which
takes precedence over anything written here. This goal of this policy is
to write down the technical details of how email lists, Slack
channels, forums etc. are set up.

While we aim to be an inclusive and welcoming community, we
recognize that not all users want to be involved in the technical
details of building and running a library like Astropy. Therefore, some
communication channels that are more geared towards users and others
to developers. Also, in a project this size, certain issues that
arise require privacy (e.g. personal or financial information is

> legally protected in many contries). Thus, there are communication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
legally protected in many countries). Thus, there are communication
```

channels geared towards or exclusively for developers, maintainers, or
members of certain committees.

## Email communication geared towards project members

Mailing lists are maintained as Google groups or through other list
servers. Unless specifically restricted, anyone worldwide can
subscribe to these lists, and previous posts are publicly

> available. List membership is required to post messages to prevent

Reviewer 2: Even though I agree we don't want this policy to have to exhaustively list all lists, you could give an example here. You could add a sentence 'Two examples of such lists are astropy@python.org, geared towards users, and astropy-dev@..., which is intended for more technical developer discussions'.

spam.  In order to be as open as possible, none of these lists shall
be moderated and nor will posts by group members be otherwise
restricted. However, the Coordination Committee can implement a "cool
down" period of no more than 48 hours if they deem it necessary to
maintain a respectful and welcoming atmosphere. During this period,
posting may be moderated or otherwise restricted by the Coordination

> Committee. The beginning and end of such a period has to be announced

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Committee or their designee. The beginning and end of such a period has to be announced
```

by the Coordination Committee on the affected mailing list. The
Coordination Committee shall not implement a "cool down" within a week
of any scheduled Astropy vote unless in the most obvious cases of Code
of Conduct violations.

The following email lists / aliases are restricted in memebership and
their content is not public:

> - astropy-core-maintainer: Membership: Anyone with commit rights to the github/astropy/astropy repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- astropy-core-maintainers: Membership: Anyone with commit rights to the github/astropy/astropy repository
```

Maybe also remove membership: in this and the next entry since it's not really needed and to avoid the double colon.

> - astropy-core-maintainer: Membership: Anyone with commit rights to the github/astropy/astropy repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- astropy-core-maintainer: Membership: Anyone with a named role on the project
```

(I think this correction is correct but maybe @kelle @eteq @taldcroft can confirm?)

Reviewer 3: Yes, I think that's correct. We are currently adding people to the core-maintainer list once they are nominated and accept the responsibilities associated with a named role.

Reviewer 4: Maybe it's time then to rename the list as its name and content is in disagreement. It certainly started as a list for maintainers as at some point that had changed

Reviewer 3: Suggestions for new name?

Reviewer 4: astropy-core-team? astropy-team? 

Certainly not maintainers if the members are not only maintainers, the project should really stop the current practice of hijacking and override tech terms that have a well established meaning at least for those who care about the tech side of things.

Reviewer 3: Both of those sound fine to me. Probably worth starting a new issue to get more feedback. (I think this PR can move forward with existing list name and we can update this doc if we end up changing it.)

Author: I'm not sure this is the "hijaking" in this case, more a evolution. In the beginning everybody involved in the project was also a core maintainer and maintainer stuff was discussed on the same list as project stuff. Then you add two more people and it's just simpler to add them to the existing list then to make a separate list. However, now we've reached a point where we may want a separate list. However, that's beyond the scope of this issue. So, I made a new one: https://github.com/astropy/astropy-project/issues/150

Reviewer 4: The mailing list started in 2017, this was well after the project had non maintainer people in it. Otherwise I agree that this is a separate issue, and thanks for opening the separate issue.

Author: I'll mark that as "resolved" here since the discussion continues in #150.

- astropy-gsoc-mentors-XXX: Membership: Mentors of Astropy GSOC projects and astropy GSOC coordinator, coordination committee
- coordinators@astropy.org: Coordination Committee
- confidential@astropy.org: Ombudsperson
- finance@astropy.org: Finance Committee

> ## Astropy Slack channels

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Astropy Slack team
```

> Anyone can join the Astropy Slack workspace and join any number of channels, unless specifically restricted. The following channels are restricted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Anyone can join the Astropy Slack workspace and join any number of channels, unless specifically restricted. The following channels are restricted:
```

(just whitespace)

> - gsoc-mentors: Same restriction as analogous mailing list

Reviewer 2: There are other private channels, e.g. coordinators and so on. We might not want to list these exhaustively though?

Posting to all channels is open to all workspace members and shall

> not be restricted. The Coordination Committee can implement a "cool

Reviewer 2: This is in contradiction with the existence of private channels, so maybe saying 'Posting to all public channels'

# Communication channels in the Astropy Project

## Preface

Communication in the Astropy Project is governed by the [Community
Code of Conduct](https://www.astropy.org/code_of_conduct.html), which

> takes precedence to anything written here. This goal of this policy is

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
takes precedence over anything written here. This goal of this policy is
```

> to write down some of the technicalities of how email lists, slack

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
to write down the technical details of how email lists, Slack
```

channels, forums etc. are set up.

> While Astropy aims to be an inclusive and welcoming community, we

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
While we aim to be an inclusive and welcoming community, we
```

recognize that not all users want to be involved in the technical

> details of building and running a library like astropy, thus there are

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
details of building and running a library like Astropy. Therefore, some
```

communication channels that are more geared towards users and others
to developers. Also, in a project this size, certain issues that
arise require privacy (e.g. personal or financial information is
legally protected in many contries). Thus, there are communication
channels geared towards or exclusively for developers, maintainers, or
members of certain committees.

> ## email communication geared towards project members

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Email communication geared towards project members
```

> The following mailing lists are maintained as Google groups. Unless
> specifically restricted, anyone worldwide can subscribe to the
> following lists and previous posts are publically avilable. List
> membership is required to post messages to prevent spam.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following mailing lists are maintained as Google groups. Unless
specifically restricted, anyone worldwide can subscribe to these lists,
and previous posts are publicly available. List
membership is required to post messages to prevent spam.
```

- astropy-dev
- astropy-affiliated-maintainers 
- astropy-core-maintainer: Membership: Anyone with commit rights to the github/astropy/astropy repository
- astropy-gsoc-mentors-XXX: Membership: Mentors of Astropy GSOC projects and astropy GSOC coordinator, coordination committee

> In order to be as open as possible, none of the aforelisted Google
> groups shall be moderated or posts by group members be otherwise

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In order to be as open as possible, none of these lists
shall be moderated and nor will posts by group members be otherwise
```

> restricted. However, the coordination committee can implement a "cool

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
restricted. However, the Coordination Committee can implement a "cool
```

> down" period of no more than 48 h if the coordination committee deems
> this necessary to maintain a respectful and welcoming

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
down" period of no more than 48 hours if they deem
it necessary to maintain a respectful and welcoming
```

> atmosphere. During this period, posting may be restricted
> (e.g. moderated) by the coordination committee. The beginning and end

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
atmosphere. During this period, posting may be moderated or otherwise restricted
by the Coordination Committee. The beginning and end
```

> of such a period has to be announced by the coordination committee on

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
of such a period has to be announced by the Coordination Committee on
```

> the respective mailing list. The coordination committee shall not

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
the affected mailing list. The Coordination Committee shall not
```

implement a "cool down" within a week of any scheduled Astropy vote
unless in the most obvious cases of Code of Conduct violations.

The following email lists / aliases are restricted to members of the respective committee and are not public:

> - coordinators@astropy.org
> - confidential@astropy.org (Ombudsperson)
> - finance@astropy.org

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- coordinators@astropy.org: Coordination Committee
- confidential@astropy.org: Ombudsperson
- finance@astropy.org: Interim Finance Committee
```
```

> ## astropy slack channels
> Anyone can join the astropy slack workspace and join any number of channels, unless specifically restricted. The following channels are restricted:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Astropy Slack channels
Anyone can join the Astropy Slack workspace and join any number of channels, unless specifically restricted. The following channels are restricted:
```

- gsoc-mentors: Same restriction as analogous mailing list

> Posting to all channels is open to call workspace members and shall

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Posting to all channels is open to all workspace members and shall
```

> not be restricted. The coordination committee can implement a "cool

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
not be restricted. The Coordination Committee can implement a "cool
```

# Communication channels in the Astropy Project

## Preface

Communication in the Astropy Project is governed by the [Community
Code of Conduct](https://www.astropy.org/code_of_conduct.html), which
takes precedence over anything written here. This goal of this policy is
to write down the technical details of how email lists, Slack
channels, forums etc. are set up.

While we aim to be an inclusive and welcoming community, we
recognize that not all users want to be involved in the technical
details of building and running a library like Astropy. Therefore, some

> communication channels that are more geared towards users and others

Reviewer 6: Any reason why you are commenting on your own PR instead of pushing the changes directly?

> communication channels that are more geared towards users and others

Author: In fact, I think I learned that "Comment on your own PR and with suggestions"-trick from you @pllim!

to developers. Also, in a project this size, certain issues that
arise require privacy (e.g. personal or financial information is
legally protected in many countries). Thus, there are communication
channels geared towards or exclusively for developers, maintainers, or

> members of certain committees.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
members of certain committees/roles.
```
Clarifying that some of the groups like the release team isn't a "committee" but this statement still applies

## Email communication geared towards project members

Mailing lists are maintained as Google groups or through other list
servers.  Two examples of such lists are astropy@python.org, geared

> towards users, and astropy-dev@..., which is intended for more

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
towards users, and [astropy-dev](http://groups.google.com/group/astropy-dev), which is intended for more
```

technical developer discussions.  Unless specifically restricted,
anyone worldwide can subscribe to these lists, and previous posts are
publicly available. List membership is required to post messages to
prevent spam.  In order to be as open as possible, none of these lists

> shall be moderated and nor will posts by group members be otherwise

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
shall be moderated, nor will posts by group members be otherwise
```

> shall be moderated, nor will posts by group members be otherwise

Reviewer: What does "not moderated" mean here, things in violation of the CoC or spam etc will be removed from the archives wont they?

Reviewer: If you retroactively remove a message from google groups, i.e. not have everything approved, then all it's doing is removing it from the archive (and if you get to it in time preventing it going out in digest emails).

restricted. However, the Coordination Committee or the ombdbusperson
can implement a "cool down" period of no more than 48 hours if they
deem it necessary to maintain a respectful and welcoming
atmosphere. During this period, posting may be moderated or otherwise

> restricted by the Coordination Committee or their designee. The

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
restricted by the Coordination Committee, Ombudsperson, or their designee. The
```
I'm thinking the point is that if the ombudsperson calls it, they should have the power to enforce the cooling down on the CoCo members, right?

beginning and end of such a period has to be announced by the

> Coordination Committee on the affected mailing list. The Coordination

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Coordination Committee or Ombudsperson on the affected mailing list. The Coordination
```
(see above)

Committee shall not implement a "cool down" within a week of any
scheduled Astropy vote unless in the most obvious cases of Code of
Conduct violations.

> The following email lists / aliases are restricted in membership and
> their content is not public:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
At the time of this writing, the following email lists / aliases are restricted in membership and
their content is not public:
```

Author: I don't like "At the time of writing". When was this written anyway? It should be updated if out of date.

Reviewer 6: I agree with @hamogu .

- astropy-core-maintainers: Membership: Anyone with commit rights to the github/astropy/astropy repository

> - astropy-gsoc-mentors-XXX: Membership: Mentors of Astropy GSOC projects and astropy GSOC coordinator, coordination committee

Author: ```suggestion
```

- coordinators@astropy.org: Coordination Committee
- confidential@astropy.org: Ombudsperson
- finance@astropy.org: Finance Committee

> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion

Other similar lists may be created as the Project requires them, but only with specific purposes in mind, as in general communication should be as open as possible.
```

## Astropy Slack team

Anyone can join the Astropy Slack workspace and join any number of
channels, unless specifically restricted (following the same rules as
restricted email lists).      

Posting to all public channels is open to all workspace members and shall

> not be restricted. The Coordination Committee can implement a "cool

Author: ```suggestion
not be restricted. The Coordination Committee or Ombudsperson can implement a "cool
```
